I had stayed 302 Chris the Napper is
recovering well from his heart surgery
less than a week after his operation
he's up and going for walks as they say
you can't keep a good man down
what did come down this week was the
neighbors wind turbine what's left of it
behind me I'd always kind of assumed
that once you install the renewable
energy system they just kind of ticked
along and harvested energy for you into
eternity but that's clearly not the case
it needs some care and maintenance and
actually if you look behind the boom
just where it intersects with the
horizon it's a clear day today and you
can see Alaska the Alaska Panhandle and
ranges there are only about 60 miles
offshore from where we are here but
anyway here is Meredith talking about
this particular power system I hope you
enjoy on the north end of Haida Gwaii
appear we're primarily on diesel that's
the only source of electricity and so we
are sort of in a desperate race right
now I feel to start coming up with
solutions that are more sustainable and
long term because the diesel is probably
not going to be coming shipped across on
barges the heck it's straight forever
and we should probably be prepared for
that Nevitt ability I so a couple of
years ago my company spark energy
designed this two-and-a-half kilowatt
power system for a couple who live out
here on North Beach and it's a
combination of Sun and wind you can see
there are six solar panels for a total
of about one and a half kilowatts and
the wind turbine is a one kilowatt Bergy
XL one turbine and so between the two
you've got a good balance of systems and
our best days are in the summer really
when we get wind from North which is a
nice clear non turbulent wind and we've
got full sunlight
I think installing any wind turbine of
this type has some challenges originally
the tower was a hundred feet tall and
we're experiencing quite a few noise
issues because this is such a windy site
Haida Gwaii experiences hurricane-force
winds regularly in the
wintertime and the turbine ends up
making quite a bit of noise in those
conditions so by lowering the tower we
managed to conquer a lot of those wind
issues there have been a lot of other
minor adjustments that we've made and
finally after two years the neighbors
are starting to be a bit happier with
this turbine because it's not keeping
them awake at night anymore
the couple who own this power system are
actually off grid so they weighed the
costs and balances you know the the cost
of extending the power lines down to
their house would have been way more
prohibitive than the cost of building
this power system and one of the
interesting things that resulted from
this is they seem to have developed even
more of an ecological consciousness
which is extending further out for them
in the community and I think that's one
of the most important things that's
happening here people can see that the
solutions exist and that the solutions
are effective and all we need to do now
is employ these solutions on a bigger
scale sure happy to see Meredith again
from spark energy have a great week and
I will talk to you next Tuesday Thanks